--- 
title: SSH Tunneling with -L
date: 16/05/2011

Well hello.. this is my first blog post from my new iPad.. I ssh'd into my
server using Prompt, hopped onto my blogging/projects VM, typed rake new, fired up VIM, and
away we go.. tonight I want to share a nugget of information that took me the
better part of a week to figure out: how to ssh tunnel using -L.~

So to be honest, I'm new at living on the CLI, but I love it.. recently my
co-worker Daniel showed me how to forward a remote webserver to my localhost
using ssh; pretty badass and useful IMO. The syntax is simple: ssh -L
localport:localhost:remoteport remoteserver.

Let me explain this in a bit more detail.

Say you're running a webserver/service on a local or remote VM and you want
to debug it locally since the VM is headless and you want to see your work in a
browser.  Use ssh -L.  My dev machine set up is a headless CentOS VM, which is
configured to be as similar to my production VM as possible.  In order for me 
to run my code and test things out, I need to view it locally in my browser, 
with ssh -L I can.  

Breaking it out it looks like this:

localhost = my windows desktop
remoteserver = a VM running inside VirtualBox (on my desktop)
localport: 80
remoteport: 80

so typing ssh -f -N -L 80:localhost:80 dev-vm will do the following:

-f = fork process into background
-N = don't run any commands remotely (w/o this -f will complain)
-L = bind the remote and local port to a secure channel

Lets go one step deeper and talk about security concerns we can subert/enhance
with the use of ssh -L.  

Now it is great that I can see a webpage, but in my little application I'm doing
a few API calls on to a server on ports that aren't open on my firewall.  Oh me
oh my, how will I ever get anything done?  I could call up my hosting provider 
and tell them to open up a port here and there, but at home I have a dynamic IP 
and I don't want to start poking holes in the firewall rules.  

A better option is to tunnel through my remote VM at my hosting provider, which
has access to the ports I need, and access the services I need from there.  Now
you may be thinking, "well you really shouldn't subvert the security measures
put in place by blocking those ports" that is a valid point.  However, I believe
it is better to use only what you need to get the job done.  One way in - one way
out, through the single, secure remote VM at the hosting provider. 

That's all for now, next post I'll go into my local VM set up in some detail.
It may be helpful for those of you out there that are forced to use Windows at
work and want to replicate your production environment locally.
